What do you think about the whistleblower Francis?
How going and recently coming out and saying that Facebook is aware of
Instagram's harmful effect on teenage girls, um,
as per their own internal research studies and the matter,
what do you think about this baby of yours, Instagram being under fire now,
as we've been talking about under the leadership of Facebook.
You know, I often question,
where does the blame lie is the blame at the people
that originated the network me, right. Uh,
is the blame at like the decision to combine the network with
another network, with a certain set of values, um,
is the blame at how it gets run after I left? Like,
is, is it the driver or is it the car, right? Um,
is it that someone enabled these devices in the first place,
if you go to an extreme, right?
Or is it the users themselves just human nature? Is it,
is it just the way of human nature?
Sure.
And like the idea that we're going to find a mutually exclusive answer here is
crazy. There's not one place, it's a combination of a lot of these things.
And then the question is like, is it true at all? Right? Like,
I'm not actually saying that's not true or that it's true,
but there's always more nuance here.
Do I believe that social media, um, has an effect on young people? Well,
it's God or they use it a lot and I bet you,
there are a lot of positive effects and I bet you, there are negative effects,
just like any technology and where I've come to in my thinking on this is that
I think any technology has negative side effects. The question is as a leader,
what do you do about them?
And are you actively working on them or do you just like,
not really believe in them. If you're a leader that sits there and says, well,
we're going to put an enormous amount of resources against this.
We're going to acknowledge when there are true criticisms where we're going to
be vulnerable and that we're not perfect and we're going to go fix them.
And we're going to be held accountable along the way.
I think that people generally really respect that. Um,
but I think that where Facebook,
I think has had issues in the past is where they say things like,
I can't remember what mark said about misinformation during the election.
There was that like famous quote where he's like,
it's pretty crazy to think that Facebook had anything to do with this selection.
Like that was something like that quote.
And I don't remember what stage he was on. And, but Ooh, that did not age well.
Right? Like you have to be willing to say, well,
maybe there's there's, there's something there. And wow.
Like I want to go look into it and truly believe it in your gut.
But if people look at you and how you act and what you say and don't believe you
truly feel that way.
It's not just the words you say,
but how you say them and that people believe they actually feel the pain of
having caused any. So.
To me, it's, um,
it's much more about your actions and your posture post event than it
is about debugging. The why? Cause I don't know, is it like,
I don't know this research, it was written well after I left. Right? Like,
is it the algorithm? Is it the explore page? Is it the people you might know,
unit connecting you to, you know, ideas that are dangerous?
Like I really don't know. Yeah. Um,
so we'd have to have a much deeper, I think,
dive to understand where the blame lies.
Well, it's very unpleasant to me to consider now. I don't know if this is true,
but to consider the very fact that there might be some
complicated games being played here. For example, you know,
as somebody I really love psychology and I love it enough to know
that the field is pretty broken in the following way.
It's very difficult to study human beings. Well at scale,
because the questions you ask affect the results you can,
you can basically get any results you want.
And so you have an internal Facebook study that asks some question of which we
don't know the full details and there's some kind of analysis,
but that's just the one little tiny slice into, uh, some much bigger picture.
And so you can have, um, thousands of employees at Facebook,
one of them comes out and picks whatever narrative,
knowing that they become famous.
Couple of the other really uncomfortable thing I see in the world,
which is journalists seem to understand,
they get a lot of clickbait attention from saying something negative about
social networks, certain companies like they even get some,
some clickbait stuff about Tesla or about it,
especially when it's like when there's a public famous CEO type of person.
If they get a lot of use on the negative, not the positive,
the positive they'll get immunity actually goes to the thing you were saying
before. If there's a hot, sexy, new product, that's great to look forward to.
They get positive on that, but absent a product it's nice to have,
uh, like the seal messing up with some kind of way.
And so couple that with the whistleblower and with the, uh,
this whole dynamic of journalism and so on, you know, uh,
with social dilemma being really popular documentary, it's like, all right.
My concern is there's deep flaws in human nature here in terms of
things we need to deal with,
like the nature of hate of bullying, all those kinds of things.
And then there's people who are trying to use that potentially to become
famous and make money off of, uh,
off of blaming others for causing more of the problem as opposed to helping
solve the problem. So I don't know what to think. I'm not saying this is like,
I'm just uncomfortable with, I guess,
not knowing what to think about any of this, because a bunch of folks,
I know that work at Facebook, uh, on the machine learning side. So Yan Lacoon,
I mean,
they they're quite upset by what's happening because there's a lot of really
brilliant, good people inside Facebook they're trying to do good.
And so like all of this press prescient is one of them and he has an amazing
team of machine learning researchers.
Like he's really upset with the fact that people don't seem to understand that
this, this is not,
the portrayal does not represent the full nature of efforts is going on on
Facebook. So I don't know what to think about that. Well, okay.
You just,
I think very helpfully explain the nuances of the situation of why
it's so hard to understand, but a couple things. One is, um,
I think I have been surprised at the
scale with which some product
manager can do an enormous amount of harm to a very,
very large company by releasing a trove of documents. Like I,
I think I read a couple of them when they got published and I haven't even spent
any time going deep part of it's like,
I don't really feel like reliving a previous life, but, um,
wow.
Like talk about challenging the idea of open culture and like what that does
to Facebook internally, if Facebook was built, like, I remember, um,
like my office, uh, we had this like no visitors rule around my office.
Cause we always had like confidential stuff up on the walls and never was super
angry. Cause they were like,
that goes against our culture of transparency and like marks and the fish cube
or whatever they call it, the aquarium, I think they called it, um,
where like literally anyone could see what he was doing at any point. And um,
and I don't know. I mean,
other companies like apple have been quiet slash locked down snapshots the same
way for a reason. And
I don't know what this does to transparency on the inside of startups.
That value that I think that it's, it's a Seminole moment and you can say, well,
you should have nothing to hide. Right. But to your point,
you can pick out documents that show anything. Right. Um,
but I don't know.
So what happens to transparency inside of startups and the culture that
we'll have that,
that startups or companies in the future will grow like the startup of the
future that becomes the next Facebook,
what will it be locked down and what does that do? Right.
So that's part one part two.
Like I don't think that you could design a more like
a well orchestrated handful of events from the
like 16 minutes to, um,
releasing the documents in the way that they were released at the right time.
Uh, that takes a lot of planning and partnership.
And it seems like she has a partner at some firm, right. That probably, uh,
helped a lot with this. But man, on a, as at a personal level, if you're her,
you'd have to really believe in what you are doing
really believe in it because you are personally putting your on the line. Right.
Like you've got a very large company that doesn't
like enemies. Right. Um, it takes a lot of guts.
Uh, and I don't love these conspiracy theories about like, oh,
she's being financed from some person or people. Like,
I don't love them because that's like the easy thing to say. I think the, the,
the outcomes raiser here is like someone thought they were doing something wrong
and was like very, very courageous. And,
and I don't know if courageous is the word, but like,
so without getting into like, is she a martyr? Is she courageous as sheet?
Right. Like, let's put that aside for a second. Yeah.
Then there are the documents themselves. They say what they say to your point.
A lot of the things that like people have been worried about already in the
documents are, or they're already been said externally. And, um,
I don't know. I'm just like, I'm,
I'm thankful that I am focused on new things with my life.
Well, let me just say,
I just think it's a really hard problem that probably Facebook and Twitter are
trying to solve. I'm actually just fascinated by how hard this.
There are fundamental issues at Facebook in tone and in an approach of
how product gets built in the objective functions. And, um,
and since people, uh, organizations are not people, so Yon and fair,
right?
Like there are a lot of really great people who like literally just want to push
reinforcement learning forward.
They literally just want to teach a robot to touch, feel lift, right?
Like they're not thinking about political misinformation, right? Yeah.
But there's a,
there's a strong connection between what funds that research and an enormously
profitable machine, uh, that has trade-offs and,
uh, one cannot one cannot separate the two.
You are not completely separate from the system.
So I agree.
It can feel really frustrating to feel if you're internally internal there,
that you're working on something completely unrelated.
And you feel like your group's good. I can understand that.
There are some responsibilities still. You have to acknowledge.
It's like the Ray Daleo thing.
You have to look in the mirror and see if there's problems and you have to fix
those problems. Yeah.